- [Instructor] Let's now turn our attention to
creating test suites.
We are able to combine several test cases to run
as a grouping.
This is also known as a test suite.
Test suites are very useful
to achieve a much broader testing objective.
Some examples of test suites are, smoke tests,
these are the kind of tests that you might want to have
in place just to give you a good indication of basic
system health.
There's also a notion of iteration test suites.
If your project is planned in iterations you may want
to group the test cases for any of the work that's happening
within an iteration.
There's also something called a feature test,
this is what we're going to do in our next exercise.
We're going to combine several of the test classes
that we've already developed,
so that we can have a test suite for our add contact
feature.
Let's get started so you can see what that looks like.
So we have an exercise project here, and I'm going to
go into my source test Java tree
and right here in my hansel and petal repackage
I have an add contact feature test suite that I'm
going to open up and
let's maximize this window.
You'll see the familiar run with annotation,
what's new here is the type of runner we're using.
We're using a suite class.
This is letting j unit know that we want to create
a test suite and we also have to supply the list of
classes that we want to aggregate together.
So for this particular test suite I chose to combine
the context management service integration test,
as well as the controller integration test and the
repository integration test.
And notice that other than creating the class
there's no implementation it's intentionally empty.
All that's really needed is all of the requisite test
suite set up annotations.
So now let's minimize our test class and run our test
suite.
I'm going to go back into my package explorer.
I'm going to right click on the add contact test suite
so that I can run it as a j unit test.
Now there's several test classes involved here
so there's a little bit of a wait.
Once that's over you should see the j unit green bar.
But let's expand this j unit tab, I want to show you
maybe even prove to you that our test suite actually
ran the classes that we wanted it to run.
And let's expand it ran our context management
service integration test if we expand that we'll see
which particular test case, the add contact happy path.
We included our context management controller integration
test and if we expand that we can also see what
ran and finally our repository integration test
which ran our test find by email test case.
So let's shrink that down.
Now for a simple test suite I would say that was pretty
thorough of course your test suite needs will differ.
So let's review what we just accomplished.
We made a feature test suite for our add contact feature
where we combined all the efforts that we put into
creating integration tests for our controller,
our service and our repository components.
We could have just as easily combined our unit test
into a suite, the combination possibilities are endless
but typically strategic.
You would have of course make test suite aggregation
choices that suit your project needs.